---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "3/12/2021"
title: "Transition to FCH"
teaser: "When last we posted on this site, we were still the housing ministry known as Clarksdale Area Habitat for Humanity.  For anybody following our (mis)fortunes over the years, including the parent Habitat organization, it was no secret that we had been floundering as an affiliate."
categories:
  - news
<!-- tags:
  - dummy -->
#
# Styling
#
image:
  header:
  thumb:
  homepage:
  caption:
  url:
author: bill
---
Our last official CAFCH report of news was 13 months ago—that’s what
a pandemic will do to things.  The groups that turned out to be our final
volunteers for 2020 (one from Uni High in Urbana, IL and one including
students and adults from St. Michael’s Catholic Church in Stillwater, MN)
did yeofolks’ work in rehabbing the house on 8th Street and bringing the
house on Edwards to near-completion.  Their participation represents a pattern
we hope to build on, post-COVID shutdown—continuing to carry out our mission
with groups that have been coming to the Delta for literally decides now and
welcoming new groups in hopes that they will become longstanding partners
as well.

When last we posted on this site, we were still the housing ministry
known as Clarksdale Area Habitat for Humanity.  For anybody following our
(mis)fortunes over the years, including the parent Habitat organization, it
was no secret that we had been floundering as an affiliate.  Despite the fact
that, with a new board and a lot of generous contributions from supporters,
we had made huge strides in rectifying many of our problems since 2018,
we remained on probation.  In addition, our small, financially strapped
affiliate was finding it simply impossible to meet the new regulations,
expectations and demands of HFHI.  As we continued to struggle, we became
aware of a new housing ministry, the Fuller Center for Housing, founded
and organized by veteran Habitaters under the leadership of the original
founders, Millard and Linda Fuller.  As we began discussions with the Fuller
Center, it began to become obvious to all concerned (HFHI, FCH, and our
board in Clarksdale) that the Fuller Center might be a better fit for us.
Since they were dedicated to the same goals of partnering with local folks
and interested volunteers to live out the Gospel messages of Isaiah 58 and
Matthew 25, and as they expressed their eagerness to partner with smaller
but vital affiliates (like ours was becoming again), the transition seemed
providential. So, in September 2020, we made the switch to become Clarksdale
Area Fuller Center for Housing and it was a remarkably amicable collaborative
process—no hard feelings and all happy to move forward.

As the new Clarksdale Area Fuller Center for Housing moved into 2021, we
had, by the grace of God, which is NOT a cliché)  found ourselves amazingly
close to solvency, but somewhat burdened by the fact that we now possessed
two abandoned Habitat houses and a new building, 95% completed but without
a homeowner.  Since the beginning of the year, however, the affiliate has
made even more significant progress.  In January, we sold one of the rehabbed
houses (on 8th St.) to a local family recently burned out of their own home,
very close to the 8th St. house, in a remarkable story, to be shared in a
later post.  Then, having finally identified a prospective homeowner for
the new house on Edwards St., we were able to provide her and her family
with the opportunity to meet their sweat equity requirement by working on
the third house, on Choctaw, as we put the finishing touches on the house on
Edwards. Our hope is to have the new homeowner, Shequita Carter, successfully
moved in by the first of April.

While the rehab work was proceeding on the Choctaw house, we became aware of
an opportunity for our new Fuller Center affiliate to branch out into another
aspect of providing housing for families in need.  One of our long-time
allies, Spring Initiative, had found themselves in a situation where one of
their families needed a short-term housing arrangement while a more permanent
solution was being worked out.  They asked if we could rent the Choctaw house
to them on a strictly limited, short-term basis (6 months at the most) while
we went through the process of establishing another new homeowner for it.
While such an arrangement lay outside the parameters of our former ministry,
our new Fuller Center affiliation permitted us to help meet local needs as
we perceived them, and our board, after careful consideration, decided that
such an arrangement fit exactly into our mission.  So now, we have sold one
(abandoned) house, are finalizing arrangements to move another family into
a second (rehabbed) house on a short-term rental agreement, and are on the
brink of moving a homeowner into a third (new) house.  This seems like pretty
remarkable progress during a pandemic shutdown, and we are so very grateful
for all the input and support we have received during these developments.

Finally, Clarksdale Area Fuller Center for Housing finds itself actually
solvent again and we thank God fervently for that accomplishment.  In addition,
in February, the legendary Farrell-Sherard affiliate seven miles from
Clarksdale, under the leadership of the incomparable Dorothy Jenkins, has
also joined the Fuller Center organization.  Moreover, in mid-March,  we will
be hosting our first post-COVID volunteer work crew—students from Georgia
Southwestern University and adults from the parent Fuller organization itself,
both in Americus GA) to continue rehab work and to become better acquainted
with the work here so that they can continue with their plans to make the
Mississippi Delta a focal point of their ministry. All of that qualifies as
answered prayer and major blessing!
