---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "4/8/2021"
title: "A \"FULLER\" EXPERIENCE—BACK TO WORK AT LAST!"
teaser: "Our first volunteer work group in almost exactly a year arrived in Clarksdale around 7:30 PM CDT on Saturday March 14, 2021.  The trip was the brainchild of Stacey Driggers, Vice President of US Operations for our new parent organization..."
categories:
  - news
<!-- tags:
  - dummy -->
#
# Styling
#
image:
  header:
  thumb:
  homepage:
  caption:
  url:
author: bill
---
Our first volunteer work group in almost exactly a year arrived in
Clarksdale around 7:30 PM CDT on Saturday March 14, 2021.  The trip was
the brainchild of Stacey Driggers, Vice President of US Operations for our
new parent organization, the Fuller Center of Housing and, besides Stacey,
consisted of six students from the Jimmy Carter Presidential Leadership
Scholarship Program of Georgia Southwestern University in Americus Georgia,
led by faculty advisor Lynda Lee Purvis and chaperone/driver extraordinaire
Tzvetelin Iordanov.  With the exception of Stacey (who has been here a few
times as we transitioned from Habitat), none of them had been to the Delta
before, but the leaders had plenty of Habitat/Fuller experience.

The construction work mostly focused on painting the interior of 90 Choctaw,
an abandoned Habitat house that construction supervisor Ben Williams and new
homeowner Shequita Carter and family had been rehabbing for weeks on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday evenings.  In addition, every morning a couple of
volunteers worked with Verna Jones and the crew at the Clarksdale Care Station.
As is typical, work at Choctaw was a little slow at first as the students
got used to picking up painting skills, but their attitudes were excellent
and their aptitudes proved more than sufficient. By the end of the week,
they were pros and the results of their efforts reflected that.  As they were
putting the finishing touches on the painting on Friday, Ben turned to me and
said, “Can you believe this is the same house we were looking at Monday?”

On Monday evening after work, we successfully experimented with our first
COVID-driven dinner and meeting with members of the Fuller community.
Blessed by warm spring weather, our outside meal at the dorm included
homeowner Sherry Williams and board member Lorraine Cancer.  After dinner,
still outside and reasonably warm, Spring representatives Veronica Kahaleua
and Sarah Sterling introduced the volunteers to the work of their outstanding
afterschool program.  Veronica presented Spring from the perspective of a
cohort leader, a native Clarksdalian, a Habitat/Fuller homeowner, and the
mother of a Spring student, while Sarah’s perspective was one of a summer
intern from Stanford University who had decided to throw in her lot with
Spring after graduation.  Both were, unsurprisingly, marvelous, and each
gave the students insights and encouragements as they pursued their own
leadership paths.  On Wednesday night, in a similar COVID-safe operation
held inside our carport due to inclement weather, we met with veteran
homeowner Lillie Matthews and new homeowner Shequita Carter and her family,
and Executive Director Leonette Henderson, Meraki Coffeehouse Director Ben
Lewis, and Art Director Bella Dallas acquainted the group with the work of
the Griot Arts program.  Once again, the conversation was informative and
exciting, as we shared for the first time publicly the Fuller-Griot dream
of building tiny house communities for deserving Clarksdale residents.

Besides providing work for the volunteers at the Choctaw house and the Care
Station and introducing them to the important work of Griot and Spring,
we were also able throughout the week to give the volunteers some really
significant historical context for the work that CAFCH and the related
non-profits are doing in the Delta. On Tuesday afternoon, we did the usual
Coahoma County/Habitat-Fuller history tour, complete with a stop for campfire
and s’mores at the MS River.  At the end of those awful stories of racial
oppression, we concluded on an encouraging note by visiting with Dorothy
Jenkins at the Farrell-Sherard Volunteer Center and celebrating with her
their transition to the Fuller Center.  There, Dorothy showed the group the
Jimmy Carter Awards won by Farrell-Sherard for being the most productive
US Habitat affiliate in 1999 and 2000.and she told the improbable story
of the very existence of the legendary former affiliate and explained the
vindication that the awards exhibited.

To continue another of the purposes for the week—to establish and encourage
Fuller connections in the Delta—on Thursday afternoon, the group met Patrick
Weems, the director of the Emmett Till Interpretive Center in nearby Sumner and
heard the horrifying story of Till’s murder and farcical trial, which many
cite as the beginning of the modern Civil Rights Movement.  We also visited
with Willie Williams who, along with Patrick, is on the board on the West
Tallahatchie Habitat affiliate and they were most interested in our story of
transitioning to Fuller since they share similar challenges in their housing
ministry.  (Our time together was marvelous but none of us got to actually
visit the scene of the infamous trial at the courthouse across the street from
where we were meeting, because JayZ and Will Smith had it all tied up with a
mini-series about Emmett Till’s mother that they are underwriting.) From
Sumner, we proceeded to Indianola where we enjoyed the BB King Museum—a
truly impressive place, for the history of racial dynamics in the Delta,
for the history of the blues in the center of American cultural history,
and for the history of a remarkable man, BB King, himself.  And, after the
museum, we drove on to nearby Leland, where we enjoyed fellowshipping with
representatives of another Fuller covenant partner there.

On Friday, David Snell, President of the Fuller Center for Housing, and his
wife Sheila, who had arrived in Clarksdale the night before, met with 18 CAFCH
board members, employees, and friends, in order for members of the local Fuller
Community to get a clearer sense of what the Fuller Center is all about, in
order for the Fuller leaders to better appreciate the breadth of the work
of CAFCH, and in order for all to share stories and visions.  After some
inspiring opening remarks from David, the group heard about possibilities
for future collaborations with youths from Spring, Griot, and Young Life,
about ways that our historical educational program has benefited the work
Visit Clarksdale has been doing to highlight important and inspirational
stories of Coahoma County, and about plans presented by Meraki Director
Ben Lewis and CAFCH construction supervisor Ben Williams about the need
and potential feasibility of collaborating on the construction of a tiny
house neighborhood.  To this point, the conversation had been practical and
goal-oriented, but it ended, fittingly enough, with a more spiritual emphasis.
Ben started it by asserting that in his 18 years with Habitat and now Fuller,
he had never experienced such a meeting, in terms of energy, enthusiasm,
collaboration, and vision. Then, espying a scriptural quote on the Griot
black board, he shared it with the group.  “Let your light shine before
others,” he read, “so that they may see your good deeds and glorify your
Father in heaven.” (Matthew 5:16) Ben is not one to throw around scripture
lightly so this was profound in and of itself, and it really summed up the
mood not only of the meeting but of the week and even of the two plus years
we had been struggling to make the affiliate/covenant partner viable again.
The meeting ended with longtime Clarksdale Habitater Pat Davis reciting
his beautiful poem, “That’s What You’ve Done Today” and CAFCH Vice
President Bobbie Butler dismissing us with an equally moving and powerful
prayer.  But now for the actual doing!

With that major blessing under our collective belt, the rest of the day should
have been anticlimactic, but, as it turns out, we were just getting started.
At 3 PM, the new homeowner, Shequita Carter, her three kids, her mother and
her stepfather joined a smaller group of us at 514 S. Edwards, her new house
for a good old-fashioned closing.  During this time, the students had an
opportunity to describe what the week had meant to them and then Marquita
(Shequita’s mom) moved many of the group to tears when she emotionally
shared what it meant for her, to have her daughter be able to move her family
into a real house. And then, the coup de grace--as a housewarming present,
David Snell presented Shequita with a brand-new electric lawnmower, donated
by the Stihl Corporation that makes them.  And when David started it in the
middle of the new kitchen (!), the crowd roared its approval.

In most cases, volunteer groups pack up on Saturday morning and scurry
out of town as fast as they can.  But not this group.  I had asked Stacey
earlier if they would be willing to stick around for a last breakfast and
one final CAFCH inspirational story to send them properly on their way, and
she had graciously agreed.  So, Saturday morning found Veronica and Elliott
Kahaleua sharing with the GSWUers their incredible Habitat/Spring/Fuller
saga—of Elliott and Veronica meeting in the prison where she worked and he
was incarcerated, of the Bible study that brought them together initially
as friends, as Elliott’s fulfilling his promise to return to MS for her
once he was a free man, of their struggles as a married couple in a rough
neighborhood in Clarksdale, of the random shooting and subsequent miraculous
recovery of their daughter Mesha there, of their discovery of Habitat as
a means of escape from that neighborhood and their introduction to Spring
where Veronica is now a cohort leader, of their willingness to take in
abandoned and orphaned children not their own, of Elliott’s willingness to
volunteer for Fuller on Saturdays after working 60 hour weeks, and of their
testimony to the grace, mercy, and love of God through all of those almost
unbelievable chapters.  Thus, with full stomachs and even fuller hearts,
our first Fuller group of 2021 departed for their homes in GA.  What a way
to get back on the post-COVID track!!
